src/catalogue/kong/index.md, before:

---
layout: product
title: Kong API Gateway
description: Enterprise-grade API Gateway and Service Mesh platform that enables secure, reliable, and scalable API and micro-services communication for government organizations.
image:
  src: /assets/catalog/kong/kong-logo.svg
  alt: Kong API Gateway
eleventyNavigation:
  parent: Catalog
tags:
  - api-management
  - service-mesh
  - microservices
  - security
  - cloud
---

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/provider-kong-blue)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/owner-private_sector-orange)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/access-NDX_OIDC-green)

{% from "govuk/components/button/macro.njk" import govukButton %}

{{ govukButton({
  text: "Try this now for 24 hours [coming soon]",
  disabled: true,
  isStartButton: true
}) }}
</br>

{{ govukButton({
  text: "Deploy this now [coming soon]",
  disabled: true,
  isStartButton: true
}) }}

Kong is a leading API Gateway and Service Mesh platform that helps government organizations secure, manage, and scale their APIs and micro-services. It provides essential capabilities for digital transformation initiatives in the public sector, including robust security features, comprehensive monitoring, and flexible deployment options.

## Key Features

### Advanced Security and Access Control

- **Authentication & Authorization**: Support for multiple authentication methods including OAuth2, JWT, and OIDC
- **Rate Limiting**: Protect services from overuse and DDoS attacks
- **IP Restrictions**: Granular control over API access based on IP addresses
- **API Key Management**: Secure distribution and management of API keys

### Service Mesh Capabilities

- **Service Discovery**: Automatically detect and register new services
- **Load Balancing**: Distribute traffic across service instances
- **Circuit Breaking**: Prevent cascade failures in distributed systems
- **Health Checks**: Monitor service health and availability

### Monitoring and Analytics

- **Real-time Analytics**: Monitor API usage, performance, and errors
- **Detailed Logging**: Comprehensive audit trails for compliance
- **Performance Metrics**: Track latency, request rates, and error rates
- **Custom Dashboards**: Create tailored views of API performance

## Business Needs

### API Security and Governance

Implement robust security controls and governance policies across all APIs and services. Kong helps ensure that sensitive government data is protected while maintaining compliance with security standards and regulations.

### Digital Service Integration

Enable secure integration between different government services, departments, and external partners. Kong's API Gateway capabilities make it easy to expose and consume APIs while maintaining security and control.

### Cloud and Legacy System Integration

Bridge the gap between modern cloud services and legacy systems. Kong's flexible deployment options and wide protocol support enable seamless integration regardless of where services are hosted.

### Microservices Architecture

Support the transition to microservices architecture with Kong's Service Mesh capabilities. Enable secure service-to-service communication, automated service discovery, and intelligent traffic routing.

### Performance and Scalability

Handle varying loads and ensure consistent performance across all digital services. Kong's distributed architecture and caching capabilities help maintain responsiveness even under high demand.

## Implementation Benefits

### Rapid Deployment

- Quick setup and configuration through declarative APIs
- Extensive plugin ecosystem for common functionality
- Automated deployment options through CI/CD pipelines

### Flexible Integration

- Support for multiple protocols (REST, GraphQL, gRPC)
- Easy integration with existing authentication systems
- Compatible with all major cloud providers

### Cost Efficiency

- Reduce development time through standardized API management
- Lower operational costs through automation
- Optimize resource usage with intelligent caching

### Compliance and Audit

- Detailed audit logs for all API transactions
- Support for compliance requirements (GDPR, etc.)
- Role-based access control for administrative functions

## Key Benefits for UK Public Sector

Kong helps government organizations:

1. **Secure Digital Services**: Implement strong authentication, authorization, and encryption for APIs and micro-services.
2. **Enable Integration**: Safely connect internal systems, external partners, and citizen-facing services.
3. **Ensure Compliance**: Meet security standards and maintain detailed audit trails.
4. **Scale Services**: Handle varying loads while maintaining performance and reliability.
5. **Modernize Infrastructure**: Support transition to cloud and micro-services architectures.

## Use Cases

- **Digital Service Delivery**: Secure and manage APIs for citizen-facing services
- **System Integration**: Connect legacy systems with modern cloud services
- **Partner Integration**: Safely expose APIs to trusted partners and suppliers
- **Micro-services Management**: Control and monitor micro-services communication

Commit message:

docs: apply GOV.UK Content Design guidelines across all content (#355)
* docs: apply GOV.UK Content Design guidelines across all content

Apply comprehensive content review based on GOV.UK guidance:
- Convert title case headings to sentence case
- Replace "click" with "select" for accessibility
- Replace ampersands (&) with "and" in body copy
- Correct American to British spellings
- Apply plain English principles

Changes across 57 files including catalogue pages, challenge
briefs, product assessments, and guidance content.

* feat(try): add guidance for users with active sessions

Show helpful information when users have active sandbox sessions:
- Link to guided walkthrough at aws.try.ndx.digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk
- Note about AWS security restrictions being potentially too restrictive
- Contact email (ndx@dsit.gov.uk) for when restrictions block progress
- Thank users for participating in early stage of NDX

Also fixes "Click" to "Select" in first-time guidance per GOV.UK style.

* fix(try): move active session guidance above sessions table

src/catalogue/kong/index.md, after:

---
layout: product
title: Kong API Gateway
description: Enterprise-grade API Gateway and Service Mesh platform that enables secure, reliable, and scalable API and micro-services communication for government organisations.
image:
  src: /assets/catalogue/kong/kong-logo.svg
  alt: Kong API Gateway
eleventyNavigation:
  parent: Catalogue
tags:
  - api-management
  - service-mesh
  - microservices
  - security
  - cloud
---

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/provider-kong-blue)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/owner-private_sector-orange)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/access-NDX_OIDC-green)

{% from "govuk/components/button/macro.njk" import govukButton %}

{{ govukButton({
  text: "Try this now for 24 hours [coming soon]",
  disabled: true,
  isStartButton: true
}) }}
</br>

{{ govukButton({
  text: "Deploy this now [coming soon]",
  disabled: true,
  isStartButton: true
}) }}

Kong is a leading API Gateway and Service Mesh platform that helps government organisations secure, manage, and scale their APIs and micro-services. It provides essential capabilities for digital transformation initiatives in the public sector, including robust security features, comprehensive monitoring, and flexible deployment options.

## Key features

### Advanced security and access control

- **Authentication and authorisation**: Support for multiple authentication methods including OAuth2, JWT, and OIDC
- **Rate Limiting**: Protect services from overuse and DDoS attacks
- **IP Restrictions**: Granular control over API access based on IP addresses
- **API Key Management**: Secure distribution and management of API keys

### Service mesh capabilities

- **Service Discovery**: Automatically detect and register new services
- **Load Balancing**: Distribute traffic across service instances
- **Circuit Breaking**: Prevent cascade failures in distributed systems
- **Health Checks**: Monitor service health and availability

### Monitoring and analytics

- **Real-time Analytics**: Monitor API usage, performance, and errors
- **Detailed Logging**: Comprehensive audit trails for compliance
- **Performance Metrics**: Track latency, request rates, and error rates
- **Custom Dashboards**: Create tailored views of API performance

## Business needs

### API security and governance

Implement robust security controls and governance policies across all APIs and services. Kong helps ensure that sensitive government data is protected while maintaining compliance with security standards and regulations.

### Digital service integration

Enable secure integration between different government services, departments, and external partners. Kong's API Gateway capabilities make it easy to expose and consume APIs while maintaining security and control.

### Cloud and legacy system integration

Bridge the gap between modern cloud services and legacy systems. Kong's flexible deployment options and wide protocol support enable seamless integration regardless of where services are hosted.

### Microservices architecture

Support the transition to microservices architecture with Kong's Service Mesh capabilities. Enable secure service-to-service communication, automated service discovery, and intelligent traffic routing.

### Performance and scalability

Handle varying loads and ensure consistent performance across all digital services. Kong's distributed architecture and caching capabilities help maintain responsiveness even under high demand.

## Implementation benefits

### Rapid deployment

- Quick setup and configuration through declarative APIs
- Extensive plugin ecosystem for common functionality
- Automated deployment options through CI/CD pipelines

### Flexible integration

- Support for multiple protocols (REST, GraphQL, gRPC)
- Easy integration with existing authentication systems
- Compatible with all major cloud providers

### Cost efficiency

- Reduce development time through standardised API management
- Lower operational costs through automation
- Optimise resource usage with intelligent caching

### Compliance and audit

- Detailed audit logs for all API transactions
- Support for compliance requirements (GDPR and other standards)
- Role-based access control for administrative functions

## Key benefits for UK public sector

Kong helps government organisations:

1. **Secure Digital Services**: Implement strong authentication, authorisation, and encryption for APIs and micro-services.
2. **Enable Integration**: Safely connect internal systems, external partners, and citizen-facing services.
3. **Ensure Compliance**: Meet security standards and maintain detailed audit trails.
4. **Scale Services**: Handle varying loads while maintaining performance and reliability.
5. **Modernise Infrastructure**: Support transition to cloud and micro-services architectures.

## Use cases

- **Digital Service Delivery**: Secure and manage APIs for citizen-facing services
- **System Integration**: Connect legacy systems with modern cloud services
- **Partner Integration**: Safely expose APIs to trusted partners and suppliers
- **Micro-services Management**: Control and monitor micro-services communication
