src/catalog/tags/Campaign.md, before:

---
layout: catalog-collection
title: "Catalog: Campaign Products"
description: "Pre-launch products seeking public sector commitments before development - innovative solutions requiring collective backing"
includeInBreadcrumbs: true
eleventyNavigation:
  parent: Catalog
pagination:
  data: collections.catalogByTag.Campaign
  size: 50
activeFilter: Campaign
---

⚠️ **Campaign products require pre-commitments from public sector organisations before development proceeds.**

This catalog shows innovative products currently in the campaign phase - seeking collective backing from government bodies before full development. These solutions address specific public sector challenges and require minimum commitment levels to ensure viability and shared development costs.

Campaign products offer:

- **Collaborative funding** - shared development costs across participating organisations
- **Tailored solutions** - built specifically for UK public sector needs
- **Early adopter benefits** - influence product direction and get priority access
- **Risk mitigation** - proven demand before full development investment

**How it works**: Express interest and commitment during the campaign phase. Once minimum commitments are reached, development begins with participating organisations as founding customers.

Commit message:

Update FOI Orchestrator product details and Campaign tag description (#218)
- Revised the FOI Orchestrator product description to clarify that a minimum of 15 agency pledges is required to proceed with development.
- Updated the commitment section to reflect that organizations are expressing intent to use the product if developed, rather than making financial commitments.
- Enhanced the Campaign tag description to emphasize the need for pledges of intent from public sector organizations before development can begin.

These changes improve clarity and align with the campaign product requirements, ensuring potential users understand the commitment needed for development.

src/catalog/tags/Campaign.md, after:

---
layout: catalog-collection
title: "Catalog: Campaign Products"
description: "Pre-launch products seeking public sector commitments before development - innovative solutions requiring collective backing"
includeInBreadcrumbs: true
eleventyNavigation:
  parent: Catalog
pagination:
  data: collections.catalogByTag.Campaign
  size: 50
activeFilter: Campaign
---

⚠️ **Campaign products require pledges of intent to use from public sector organisations before development proceeds.**

This catalog shows innovative products currently in the campaign phase - seeking collective interest from government bodies before full development. These solutions address specific public sector challenges and require a minimum number of organisations to pledge they would use the product if developed, to ensure viability and real demand.

Campaign products offer:

- **Tailored solutions** - built specifically for UK public sector needs
- **Early adopter benefits** - influence product direction and get priority access
- **Risk mitigation** - proven demand before full development investment

**How it works**: Express your organisation's interest and intent to use during the campaign phase. Once the minimum number of pledges is reached, development begins with participating organisations as founding users.
